Hi there, welcome to
this video. Today we
are going to learn
what social
engineering is.
Social engineering is
a way attackers trick
people instead of
hacking computers.
The goal of this
video is to explain
social engineering in
a clear and simple
way. We will look at
what it is, how it
works and why
attackers use it.
Understanding this
helps you stay safer
online.
When people hear
about cyberattacks,
they often think
about computers and
code. But many
attacks do not start
with technology. They
start with people and
their behaviour.
People trust others,
want to help and
sometimes feel
pressure to act
quickly. Attackers
know this and use it
to their advantage.
This is why people
are often the target.
Social engineering is
when someone tricks
or manipulates people
into giving away
information, access
or money. It focuses
on human behaviour,
not technical
weaknesses. Instead
of breaking into a
system, attackers
convince someone to
help them. This can
be faster and easier
than hacking. The
victim may not even
realise an attack is
happening.
Attackers may pretend
to be friendly,
helpful or important.
They may create
urgency or fear to
stop people from
thinking carefully.
Sometimes they offer
rewards or prizes.
Attackers usually
have clear goals.
They want information
, access or money.
Social engineering
helps them reach
these goals.
Information can
include passwords,
names, email
addresses or school
accounts. With this
information,
attackers can cause
more problems later.
That is why
information must be
protected. Access
means being able to
log in or use an
account. Once
attackers have access
, they can pretend to
be someone else. This
can lead to serious
problems. Sometimes
attackers want money.
This could be real
money, gift cards or
in-game currency.
Social engineering is
often used to trick
people into sending
it.
Social engineering
can happen online or
offline. It can
happen in messages,
emails, games, phone
calls or face-to-face
. The same tricks can
be used in many
places. Social
engineering works
because people are
human. People trust,
feel emotions and
sometimes act quickly
. Attackers take
advantage of this.
Understanding social
engineering helps you
stop and think. If
something feels
strange or urgent,
slow down. Thinking
first can help you
stay safe. Great work
! In this video you
learned what social
engineering is and
why attackers use it.
Next, watch video
about types of social
engineering to learn
how to recognise them
. Thank you for
watching!